[Autogenerated] up until now,
we looked at how to retrieve inquiry data from OTB in spring applications,
but I think it's time to look at the other side of the spectrum.
So his module,
you're going to learn how to insert new documents in a
mongo database from a spring application.
How to update a decent documents, how to remove documents.
Then we'll take a look at converters and see how we can utilize them
for civilization and destroy ization off fields.
And as but not these will wrap it up to Demo in,
which will apply everything that we have learned in this module.
Sounds interesting.
Let's get to it.
Databases are not fun if they don't contain anything.
So let's try to insert some data in a Mongol database from a spring application.
But before we do that, let's take a look at the overall is third process.
When it comes to Mongo D.
B.
Let's assume you have a document that you want to store that want to persist.
If the collection does not exist,
Mangal will automatically create that collection for us.
Then, if our document doesn't have an I D.
Mangal will also generate a random I d for us.
If not, it could use the one that he has.
And then it was safe.
That single document, Atomic Lee.
So not very difficult.
But we already see the many things that Mongo does for us automatically,
including creating the collection and generating the idee.
I mentioned Atomic Lee earlier.
What they mean by that?
Well, mom got to be body full support single document transactions.
So on operation of a single document is atomic either succeeds or fails.
And because mongo is an article,
database and relationships are embedded in that single document,
then these mostly eliminates the need for multi document transactions.
However, what's neat is that starting with version for Mongo, D.
B also supports mostly document transaction.
And this is something very rare in the no sequel world.
But just because we have them doesn't mean we have toe overuse them.
So this is my advice to you.
Don't overuse mongo multi document transactions.
You can do that.
But no sequel was not designed with this in mind.
So we should really try to make your documents as embedded as possible and
try to limit the use of relationships between documents.
But enough of the theory.
Let's look at some coat.
We're creating a new person called Anna, and Anna has the age of 18.
If you want to insert a document we can use Well, you guessed it Mongo template.
And here we have a method called Insert it passing the object,
and that document is going to be stored in our mongo collection.
Now, don't get fooled by the stable over here.
I want to represent this concept using a table.
But as you know, documents in a Mongol database are not tabular.
What if you want to create a personality so we're creating a new person,
but this time also giving it a ny D by default.
Then we call Mongo template insert, and a lot make is going to be inserted.
But this time,
Mangal will not generate an i d for us because you have
provided that I d when you created the object.
So the a d dirty provide is the one that is going to be stored.
And what if we want to create a new person in this time Stan
with the age of 34 but accidentally assign it on existing I d
we're going to get an error,
A duplicate key exception and your document is not going
to be inserted in the Mongol batteries.
And this is happening because I d by default is an indexed
field with the unique property said to true.
All right, we know how to insert single documents.
But what if you have a ton of documents that you want to be certain?
Let's assume you want to bootstrap a system,
and we have to insert a lot of people.
Well,
the naive way would be to create all of our persons and then
Cole insert for each and every one of them,
and this will work.
It's a fully functional solution,
but it is not efficient because you have a free round trips to the database.
Is there a better solution?
Well, yes, it is.
We can combine all these persons into a least off persons.
We call it people over here,
and then we can use the insert all method on the Mongol
template and passing that collection of people.
This is what we call a badge insert, and we have the same result as before.
But now we get a single round ship to the database.
So the performance increase is really considerable,
especially if we have a large number of documents that
want to save in a single round trip. That's how you do batch inserts in Margo, TB and Spring.